let's bring in Mar bashara whose outs
are a senior political analyst joins us
now from London following these events
as well so marn as Zena was just saying
Israel has been trading fire with
Hezbollah across lebanon's Southern
Border in parallel uh to the war in Gaza
and it appears to be this kind of slow
managed almost
escalation yes but there's a big butt
this week you get a sense that we are um
at a at a turning point perhaps either
there's going to be ceasefire in Gaza
and end to the confrontation on the
Israel Lebanese border or there's going
to be continued uh war in Gaza and
intensification of the War uh on Lebanon
you just get that feeling that a
full-fledged war on Lebanon is just a
matter of time if this thing continues
to escalate now yes it is important to
note that while Israel and Hezbollah
have been attacking military bases and
Military
targets the attacks on Villages the
attacks on civilian population centers
is also making things worse and you and
you you get the feeling that they're
becoming less and less indifferent about
the consequences of their actions and
hence if the ceasefire negotiation
continue to be block and in fact it
escalates in Gaza as it has been
somewhat the last few days
the situation on isra Lebanon borders
can get quite more dangerous if a SE far
did come good news for Gaza of course
but would it mean would it mean that
this escalation the slow escalation that
we're seeing across the border with
Israel and Lebanon would just be turned
off at that
point well at least that's what
Hezbollah or Hezbollah leaders have been
saying uh for the past many months is
that uh the front on the Lebanese Israel
borders are meant simply to relieve the
uh the Gaza or the Gaza front from
Israel's wrath that if only Hezbollah
can draw some of some of Israel's
military capacity to the north uh its
capacity to inflict more and more damage
with more and more confidence would be
reduced so the idea of of a ceasefire in
Gaza the idea of reconstruction in Gaza
could certainly pave the way for uh some
resp fite and potentially or normally an
end to the skirmishes between Lebanon
and
Israel so those negotiations are
continuing the Seas negotiations that is
uh but it's hard to read which direction
they're going we do know that Israeli
negotiators have returned from Cairo
back to Israel and they're returning to
Cairo on
Sunday it seems to me that they are uh
they're digging in into the details and
the details that they complicated or
they like to complicate it especially
the
Israelis uh because for Hamas it's very
simple get the hell out of Gaza get the
hell out of our land you destroyed
enough of our houses and universities on
hospitals and kindergartens and so on so
forth it's time for you to leave but for
the Israelis no we're going to maintain
military presence here and Military
oversight there and we're going to have
to be at the borders they basically want
to reoccupy God
albe it not
flagrantly the United States has sort of
tried to facilitate that for net
allowing for some of his red line to
creep into the so-called new bridging
proposals which are as we've heard at
the UN Security Council very
inconsistent with the original proposal
unlike what American diplomats say my
sense my reading Nick and I've been
saying that for a number of days all the
Ducks are lined up for a ceasefire deal
most importantly because this this draft
ceasefire deal will not lead to security
and permanent ceasefire necessarily the
whole point of it is that it was diluted
it was watered down to be a three phases
disconnected without an automatic move
from phase one to phase two to phase
three and hence the idea that this could
pass or should pass is not a big deal
right the whole world wants it to pass
everyone wants some form of Rite and
those who supported Israel's genocide
the past 10 months would like to be seen
as advocating for ceasefire advocating
for more Aid to the Palestinians so even
those with the bad intentions like those
with the good intentions everyone wants
a ceasefire except Netanyahu he seems to
be still the odd man out hoping to get
more and more popularity in Israel as a
wartime leader hoping to prolong the war
as much as possible hoping to milk the
United States for more concessions and
even milk milk some of the Arabs for
more concessions all right Mar thanks
for that Mar bashara there in London
more on this as we get it and as the
bulletins go on thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from aler